Privacy Policy | GoodLife Fitness MY ACCOUNT CLUBS CLASSES MEMBERSHIP TRAINING BLOG CAREERS BECOME A MEMBER Log in My Account | logout Log in Member ID, Barcode or Email Address Password Forgot password Log in Don't have an account? Sign Up TITLE GOES HERE CTA CAN GO HERE FIND A CLUB GET A FREE WORKOUT Join now and save up to 60% off enrolment on the Ultimate and Performance Memberships. Hurry! Don’t miss out! Get started today GOODLIFE FITNESS CENTRES Privacy Policy Goodlife Fitness Privacy Policy Internet activities GoodLife Fitness – Privacy Policy Last updated December 2023 At GoodLife Fitness we are privileged each and every day to help members to achieve their health and fitness goals. We understand the need to protect personal information provided to us and take this role very seriously. Our commitment to protecting the privacy and confidentiality of our members’ personal information is addressed in this Privacy Policy. We want you to understand why we collect your personal information, how the confidentiality of this information is protected and how you can find out what information concerning you is recorded. This Policy applies to GoodLife Fitness and our collection, use, storage and disclosure of personal information in our Clubs, through our websites and mobile applications, on social media and through other mechanisms. Consent By providing us with Personal Information, we will deem you to understand this Privacy Policy, and we will deem you to consent to our collection, use and sharing of such Personal Information for the purposes identified or described in this Privacy Policy. You may withdraw your consent at any time; however we may not then be able to provide you with our full range of services. We will advise you when you withdraw your consent of the impact that will have on what we are able to provide. For information on withdrawing your consent, please contact our Chief Privacy Officer privacyofficer@goodlifefitness.com. Updates We may, from time to time, update this Privacy Policy. Any changes we make to this Privacy Policy will be effective when we post the revised policy on our Website. By continuing to interact with us after the modified version of the Privacy Policy has been posted, you are accepting the changes to the Privacy Policy. It is your responsibility to ensure that you read, understand and accept the latest version of the Privacy Policy. The date at the top of this Privacy Policy indicates when it was last revised. PERSONAL INFORMATION: Personal information is information about you as an individual and includes information that identifies you and that can be used to contact you. This includes such information as your name, birth date, e-mail address, mailing address, telephone number, banking information, credit card number, and the like. It may also include information about your health and fitness levels and goals, if you have communicated these to us. We also collect data about the services that you purchase from us, the frequency of your visits to our clubs and about the specific equipment, classes and services that you take advantage of. If you have a Corporate Membership, we collect the name of the business that you work for or have a membership with. Personal Information may also include other types of more technical information such as IP addresses, geolocation, device ID, or browsing history in connection with our mobile app or websites, but only when this information can identify you as an individual. Information that is aggregated and cannot be associated with an identifiable individual is not considered to be Personal Information. HOW WE USE YOUR PERSONAL INFORMATION Among other things, as described further in this Privacy Policy, we use Personal Information that we collect for the following purposes: to understand your fitness and other related needs and objectives and to assist you in achieving them to determine your eligibility for membership and for receiving our products and services to provide you with a copy of your membership contract and other related agreements to process your membership payments and to ensure that your account remains up-to-date to invite you to participate in member surveys or other opinion-gathering devices that assist us in making our clubs more responsive to your needs to inform you of various matters relating to your membership to send you newsletters, personalized offers and other information about products and services that we believe may be of interest to you to conduct contests, prize draws, competitions and other special promotions to enforce our agreements to collect amounts owing to us to protect against harm to the rights, property and safety of GoodLife, our employees, members and others to detect, investigate and prevent activities that are unlawful or in violation of GoodLife’s policies and/or the terms of our agreements GoodLife Rewards Program: As a member of GoodLife Fitness, you receive access to exclusive deals from our Reward Program Partners. Information on the program, and the available offers is available on our Website. From time to time we will use Personal Information to send you information about special deals and promotions offered to you, as a GoodLife member, by our Reward Program Partners. We do not disclose your Personal Information to our Reward Program Partners. Aggregate Data: We may combine your personal information with that of other individuals to create aggregate data which we will use, among other things, to improve our products and services and develop new ones, to create personalized digital experiences, and to send you, and others like you, offers and information that we believe you or they may be interested in. Aggregate data is general information about groups of customers but not about you as an individual. We may also disclose aggregate member data to be used in academic research (e.g., exercise adherence), provided, however, your data will never be individually identified or identifiable in reports of the research findings; only aggregated data (for example group averages) will be presented. Photographs: In the interest of security and prevention of crime, we may take a digital photograph of you when you become a member. We will use that photograph to verify your identity when you attend at the club, and where we deem necessary for health, safety or security reasons. If you don’t wish to provide your photograph, you may decline. If you do permit us to take your photograph, you may ask us to delete your photograph later. If we do not have your photograph on your member profile, we may ask you to provide identification to verify your identity when you attend our clubs. Contacting Us: GoodLife Fitness wants to hear from our members regarding any issues or comments they may have with respect to their memberships or any services offered by our clubs. We may record this information and transmit it to our clubs in order to address them in the appropriate manner. When you contact us, including (without limitation) by post, telephone, fax, email, SMS, live chat, through our Website or App or through social media, we collect the information that you disclose to us. This may include details such as your name, address, telephone, fax, email and phone number, as well as your questions, inquiries, comments, complaints or requests. If you correspond with us through any media, we may keep a record of that correspondence. Surveys: From time to time, we may ask you to complete surveys that we use for research purposes and which we will use, for example, to improve our products and services and develop new ones. We will collect the information that you provide if you respond, however you are under no obligation to respond to them. Video Surveillance: We use video surveillance in our clubs to protect the rights, property and safety of GoodLife, our employees, members and others. In the event of accident, theft or other incident, we may use and share information related to the incident as required for investigative, operational, insurance, legal or other necessary purposes. User Generated Content: If you post content (including, without limitation, text, pictures, audios, videos, testimonials, tweets, blog posts or reviews) to online platforms, such as social media, or to any publicly available blogs or other publicly available features of our Website, they may be viewed by other users of social media or our Website. By making personal information publicly available on our social media sites or on our Website, you consent to publication by GoodLife or our service providers and agents. Telecommunications: GoodLife Fitness may ask you for contact information such as your telephone, mobile or fax number or e-mail address, and keep and use this information as well as disclose it to other trusted third parties so that we or any of these third parties may contact you directly through these channels for the purpose of marketing (including telephone and e-mail marketing and automated telephone messages) of goods, services and special offers that may be of interest to you. Your consent to this is not a condition of your membership. In-Club Wireless Access: As a convenience to our members, wireless internet access may be available in some of our facilities. Any such in-club wireless access is provided by third parties and not GoodLife Fitness. We are not responsible for our wireless internet provider’s privacy, information or other practices. By accessing such services, you agree to any applicable terms of use, which will be provided to you when you connect to the wireless internet service. When you access our in-club wifi we may collect the unique identifier of the device you use to access the wifi and the internet domains that you visit. We use this information to identify issues with our network and to troubleshoot problems with the wifi. We may also collect your name and email address so that we may send you information and special offers that we believe may be of interest to you. We may also use aggregated information for marketing research and planning, which aggregated information will not identify and is not associated with you or any other user of our in-club wireless internet. ONLINE ACTIVITIES: GoodLife Fitness Member Site When you log in to the GoodLife Fitness Member Portal, we collect information such as your membership ID, browser type, IP address, computer type, type of mobile device (if used), computer operating system, the site from which you navigated to the Member Portal, the time and date you logged in, whether you are a repeat visitor to the Member Portal, the pages that you view and any links that you click. GoodLife Fitness Website When you visit our Website at www.goodlifefitness.com, our server logs automatically record statistical information, such as your IP addresses, type of operating system, device type, browser use, time and duration of visit, webpages requested, approximate geographical location (country, province, city), your page views, the time you spent on the Website and your clicks and interactions. We also identify categories of visitors to the Website by items such as domains and browser types. If you request a visit to one of our Clubs, or a free workout, we collect your name, email address, approximate geographical location, the Club you are interested in and the site you navigated to the Website from. GoodLife Fitness Mobile App When you download the GoodLife Fitness Mobile App, we collect your email address, your name (which may also be a pseudonym/nickname), and electronic identification data (log-in data, functional cookies). This allows you to login and use the many features of the App. You also have the option of storing your date of birth, your gender, information about your height, weight, target weight, your workout intensity (low/medium/high) and your fitness goal (e.g. weight loss, muscle strength) in the App, to allow you to track your progress in reaching your fitness goals. GoodLife Fitness uses Firebase to support the App and to learn more about how our App is used to assist us in optimizing the experience for our users. To do this, GoodLife uses a tracking pixel, agent or other visitor identification technology that collects, uses, shares and stores anonymized data (for example, session information, device information, workouts completed) about how end users use the App. For further information, please see Google Firebase’s privacy policy at https://policies.google.com/privacy. Digital Markers (including cookies) A digital marker is a resource created by the visitors’ browser in order to remember certain pieces of information for the web server to reference during the same or subsequent visit to the Website. Examples of digital markers are “cookies” or HTML5 web storage. Some examples of what digital markers do are as follows: they allow a website to recognize a previous visit each time the visitor accesses the site; they track what information is viewed on a website which helps website administrators ensure visitors find what they are looking for. GoodLife Fitness uses sessional and persistent digital markers/cookies on some portions of our Website. We use these cookies or similar technologies to store your preferences, record session information such as information on what pages you access or visit, develop information about your preferences and interests, alert you to areas that we think might be of interest to you when you return to our Website, record past activity in order to provide better service when you return to our Website, help rotate banner advertising so as to ensure that visitors are not repeatedly sent the same banner ads, and customize content based on your browser type or other information you provide. We may also combine such information with other information that we have collected from you from various sources (eg. in our clubs, through our mobile App, or from social media) in our consumer database. This allows us to improve the quality of our service, including by storing user preferences, tracking user trends and providing relevant advertising to you based on your activities. We also use digital markers/cookies and similar tools placed by our advertising partners for tailored interest-based advertising purposes. GoodLife Fitness also uses digital markers/cookies to collect data related to your browsing activity or your device. For example, we collect data related to your IP address, your browsing history, the content of the pages you visited, the number of clicks you make, your type of device, the site you came from and the site you’re going to when you leave ours, your approximate geographical location, your email, as well as the ads and videos that you viewed on each site. We are also able to track which of our ads you interact with on third-party websites. We use such data to provide you with ads that are more relevant to your interests such as, for example, ads related to the sites and contents you viewed, and to identify other people with similar interests. If you click on one of our ads online, including to contact us by phone, your mobile phone number and cookie related data may be shared with our digital partners and used to track the effectiveness of our advertising and for the purposes of delivering ads that may be relevant to you in the future. We do not currently honour “do-not-track” signals from a website browser. You may adjust your browser settings to reject digital markers, including cookies, if you choose. You can also delete` the cookies present on your computer from your browser, or completely deactivate the feature that keeps or stores cookies on GoodLife Fitness’ Website. Certain features also allow you to deactivate some cookies and to keep only those you want. If this interests you, review your browser settings. Note, however, it may affect your ability to interact with our Website. GoodLife Fitness’ also uses third party remarketing services, such as Meta and Double Click by Google, to advertise on third party websites (including Google) or social media sites to previous visitors to our Website and to other visitors who may have similar preferences. This could be in the form of an advertisement on the Google search results page, Facebook or Instagram, or on sites across the internet. You may opt-out of Google Analytics and other digital media platforms by using the Digital Advertising Alliance of Canada’s ad choices tool: https://youradchoices.ca/en/tools Visitors may also opt out of a third-party vendor’s use of cookies by visiting the Network Advertising Initiative opt-out page: http://www.networkadvertising.org/managing/opt_out.asp Interest-based advertising opt-outs work by saving cookies in your browser that tell the various ad partners that you have opted-out. Because cookies are generally browser-specific, your choice will only apply to the web browser from which you opt-out. You must opt-out from each web browser from which you do not want interest-based advertising (and this may involve different devices, if you use more than one). If you opt-out of interest-based advertising by a third party, these technologies may still collect data for other purposes, including analytics, and you may still see ads across the Internet, but the ads will not be targeted based on information about you, and may therefore be less relevant to you and your interests. Social Media If you engage with us on social media, we will collect information that you have added in your registration profile from those accounts and which is made available to us by default by the relevant Social Media Platform. We also place various social media buttons on our Website in the form of a link, including (but not limited to) Meta (Facebook and Instagram), X (formerly Twitter), Pinterest. When you visit a website which integrates social media plugins, certain data (your current IP address, visited sites, the date and time the website etc.) is forwarded to these social media services even if you are not registered with these services. If you are already logged into the social media service when you click on the social media button, the social media service may also use this data to identify your username and possibly even your real name. We have no control over the extent, nature and purpose of such data processing by the social media service. You can find further information about data protection regarding Facebook, Twitter and Instagram. Location Information If you use our App, we may collect location data obtained from your mobile device. If you use our Website or the Member Platform, we may collect location data obtained from your IP address. We use this location data to find our nearest club to you, present you with membership product options, provide club amenities, club hours, and Group Fitness classes at our clubs near you and driving directions to our clubs. We also collect aggregate location data (City and Country only) to learn more about how our Website, Member Platform and App are used to assist us in optimizing the experience for our users. If you would prefer not to provide us with your device’s location information, you can control what location information is shared in the settings menu of your device. Web Analytics Web analytics is the collection, analysis, measurement, and reporting of data about web traffic and visits for purposes of understanding and optimizing web usage. Information in digital markers may be used for the purpose of web analytics to remember your online interactions with GoodLife Fitness’ Website. Google/Adobe Analytics: GoodLife Fitness may use third-party web analytics services on our websites, such as those of Adobe and Google Analytics. These service providers help us analyze how users use our websites. They may collect various data points associated with your visits to our websites, including your IP address, and they may place cookies to help with the analysis. To learn more about Adobe Analytics and how to opt-out, click here. To learn more about Google Analytics and how to opt-out, click here. HotJar: Hotjar is a technology service that helps us better understand our users’ experience (e.g. how much time they spend on which pages, which links they choose to click, what users do and don’t like, etc.) and this enables us to build and maintain our Website, and the services available on our Website, with user feedback. Hotjar uses cookies and other technologies to collect data on our users’ behavior and their devices (in particular device's IP address (captured and stored only in anonymized form), device screen size, device type (unique device identifiers), browser information and geographic location (country only). Hotjar stores this information in a pseudonymized user profile. Neither Hotjar nor we will ever use this information to identify individual users or to match it with further data on an individual user. You can opt-out to the creation of a user profile, Hotjar’s storing of data about your usage of our site and Hotjar’s use of tracking cookies on other websites by following this opt-out link. SHARING OF PERSONAL INFORMATION: GoodLife Fitness contracts with trusted companies to act on our behalf to fulfill certain functions. We may use third party service providers to process or handle personal information on our behalf and to assist us with various services such as data processing, printing, mail distribution and marketing. Some of our service providers are located outside of Canada. As a result, your personal information may be accessible to regulatory authorities in accordance with the law of these jurisdictions. We will take steps to ensure that such parties adhere to our policy with respect to the protection of your personal information. Except as set out in this policy or as required or permitted by law, GoodLife Fitness will not sell or disclose any of your personal information to any other organization without first obtaining your consent. GoodLife Fitness may, however, disclose information in the following cases: to enforce or apply our membership agreements to protect the rights, property or safety of GoodLife, our employees, our members and others where permitted by law, including to comply with a subpoena, warrant or order to law enforcement in connection with an investigation to a person authorized by a law or collective agreement to an investigative body or government institution which can oblige us to do so in emergency situations in which we believe that the life, health or safety of a member or other person may be in danger to an agent retained by GoodLife in connection with the collection of your account if all or a part of our business is sold, we may transfer information we have about you in preparation for or as part of completing that transaction to our insurers, insurance adjusters and/or lawyer in connection with legal proceedings (actual or contemplated) ACCURACY and RETENTION: GoodLife Fitness strives to maintain the accuracy and completeness of your Personal Information. You may ask us to delete or correct information contained in your file. Any such requests must be made in writing to our Chief Privacy Officer, at the address below. GoodLife Fitness will keep your Personal Information for as long as it remains necessary for the identified purposes or as required by law, or in accordance with our retention schedules, which may extend beyond the termination of our relationship with you. SAFEGUARDS: GoodLife Fitness has comprehensive security controls to protect against unauthorized access, use, alteration, duplication, destruction or disclosure of your Personal Information. We use safeguards that are appropriate to the sensitivity of the information. Each of our employees is responsible for maintaining the confidentiality and security of all Personal Information to which they have access. We keep our employees informed about our policies and procedures for protecting personal information. Where necessary, our employees are required to sign agreements to keep your personal information confidential. ACCESS: In order to fulfill requests for access to information in your file or to answer any questions or address any concerns individuals may have about privacy, GoodLife Fitness has designated a Chief Privacy Officer. In addition to answering inquiries, the Chief Privacy Officer is also responsible for ensuring that the requirements of this Privacy Policy and related procedures are being met. CONTACT US: All inquiries or complaints regarding privacy should be directed in writing to the Chief Privacy Officer by mail, FAX or e-mail at the addresses below. We will endeavour to respond to all inquiries within thirty (30) days from the date on which our Chief Privacy Officer has received the inquiry. GoodLife Fitness can refuse access to a file in certain circumstances. For your convenience, you may print our Personal Information request form by clicking on the link below. Personal Information Request DOWNLOAD Personal Information Request Form Amendments to Our Privacy GoodLife Fitness may review and revise this privacy policy from time to time. Changes to this policy will be posted on our website at www.goodlifefitness.com and available on request in our clubs. MAIL GoodLife Fitness c/o Privacy Officer 710 Proudfoot Lane London ON N6H 5G5 FAX Attention: Chief Privacy Officer 519-432-6701 EMAIL privacyofficer@goodlifefitness.com Internet Activities GoodLife Fitness Member Site When you log in to the GoodLife Fitness Member Site, we collect your email address, membership ID, browser type, IP address, computer type, type of mobile device (if used), computer operating system, the site from which you navigated to the member portal, the time and date you logged in, whether you are a repeat visitor to the Member Site and the pages that you view. Digital Markers (including cookies) A digital marker is a resource created by the visitors’ browser in order to remember certain pieces of information for the Web server to reference during the same or subsequent visit to the Web site. Examples of digital markers are “cookies” or HTML5 Web storage. Some examples of what digital markers do are as follows: they allow a Web site to recognize a previous visit each time the visitor accesses the site; they track what information is viewed on a site which helps Web site administrators ensure visitors find what they are looking for. GoodLife Fitness uses sessional and persistent digital markers on some portions of its Web site. This allows us to improve the quality of our service, including for storing user preferences, tracking user trends and providing relevant advertising to you based on your activities on our Website and others’ websites. During your on-line visit, your browser exchanges data with GoodLife Fitness’ Web server. The digital markers used do not allow GoodLife Fitness to identify individuals. You may adjust your browser settings to reject digital markers, including cookies, if you so choose. However, it may affect your ability to interact with GoodLife Fitness’ Web site. Web Analytics Web analytics is the collection, analysis, measurement, and reporting of data about Web traffic and visits for purposes of understanding and optimizing Web usage. Information in digital markers may be used for the purpose of web analytics to remember your online interactions with GoodLife Fitness’ Web site. Google/Adobe Analytics GoodLife Fitness may also use third-party Web analytics services on our websites, such as those of Adobe (formerly Omniture) and Google Analytics. These service providers help us analyze how users use our websites. These providers may collect various data points associated with your visits to our websites, including your IP address, and they may place cookies to help with the analysis. To learn more about Adobe Analytics and how to opt-out, click here. To learn more about Google Analytics and how to opt-out, click here. HotJar We use Hotjar in order to better understand our users’ needs and to optimize this service and experience. Hotjar is a technology service that helps us better understand our users experience (e.g. how much time they spend on which pages, which links they choose to click, what users do and don’t like, etc.) and this enables us to build and maintain our service with user feedback. Hotjar uses cookies and other technologies to collect data on our users’ behavior and their devices (in particular device's IP address (captured and stored only in anonymized form), device screen size, device type (unique device identifiers), browser information, geographic location (country only), preferred language used to display our website). Hotjar stores this information in a pseudonymized user profile. Neither Hotjar nor we will ever use this information to identify individual users or to match it with further data on an individual user. For further details, please see Hotjar’s privacy policy by clicking on this link. You can opt-out to the creation of a user profile, Hotjar’s storing of data about your usage of our site and Hotjar’s use of tracking cookies on other websites by following this opt-out link. Display and Remarketing GoodLife Fitness’ Web site also uses the Double Click by Google remarketing service to advertise on third party websites (including Google) to previous visitors to our Web site and to other visitors who may have similar preferences. This could be in the form of an advertisement on the Google search results page or on sites across the internet. Third-party vendors, including Google, use first-party cookies (such as the Google Analytics cookie) and third-party cookies (such as the DoubleClick cookie) together to inform, optimize, and serve ads based on someone’s past visits to GoodLife Fitness’ Web site. You may opt-out of Google Analytics for Display Advertising and customize Google Display Network ads using the Ads Preferences Manager. https://www.google.com/settings/ads/onweb/ Visitors may also opt out of a third-party vendor’s use of cookies by visiting the Network Advertising Initiative opt-out page: http://www.networkadvertising.org/managing/opt_out.asp GoodLife Fitness Blog Certain aspects of GoodLife’s Website are not confidential and are available for public viewing. If you post submissions to any publicly available blogs or other publicly available features of our Website, they may be viewed by other users of our Website. By making personal information publicly available where the Website allows you to do so, you consent to such publication by GoodLife or our service providers and agents. Please refer to the Terms of Use for additional provisions relating to user submissions that may apply to you. Social Media If you connect a social media account with any of our websites or applications or engage with our websites or applications through a social media platform, we may share your information with that social media platform, and it may share information about you with us. We may use this information to personalize your experience on our sites and on the third-party social media platforms, or to provide you with offers or other products or services you may request. The social media services’ use of the shared information will be governed by the social media services’ privacy policy and your social media account settings. If you do not want your information shared in this way, do not connect your social media service account with our websites or applications. GoodLife Fitness Mobile App GoodLife Fitness uses Firebase to support our mobile app and to learn more about how our mobile app is used to assist us in optimizing the experience for our users. To do this, GoodLife uses a tracking pixel, agent or any other visitor identification technology that collects, uses, shares and stores data about the end users of our mobile app. When you download our mobile application, you consent to any applicable Terms of Use. For further information, consult Google Firebase and its privacy policy at https://policies.google.com/privacy. Location Information If you use our mobile websites or applications, we may collect location data obtained from your mobile device. If you use our websites, we may collect location data obtained from your IP address. We use this location data to find our nearest club to you, provide club amenities, club hours, and Group Fitness classes at our clubs near you and driving directions to our clubs. If you would prefer not to provide us with your device’s location information, you can control what location information is shared in the settings menu of your device. Retention We will only retain your personal information as long as is necessary for the fulfillment of the purposes for which it was collected or as required by law. Personal information is securely stored until such time as it is no longer required, after which it is anonymized or destroyed. Accuracy GoodLife Fitness strives to maintain the accuracy and completeness of your personal information. You may ask us to delete or correct information contained in your file. Any such requests must be made in writing to our Chief Privacy Officer, at the address below. Safeguards Your personal information is secure within GoodLife Fitness. We have comprehensive security controls to protect against unauthorized access, use, alteration, duplication, destruction or disclosure. We protect your personal information by using safeguards that are appropriate to the sensitivity of the information. Each of our employees is responsible for maintaining the confidentiality and security of all personal information to which they have access. We keep our employees informed about our policies and procedures for protecting personal information. Where necessary, our employees are required to sign agreements to keep your personal information confidential. Member Access In order to fulfill requests for access to information in your file or to answer any questions or address any concerns individuals may have about privacy, GoodLife Fitness has designated a Chief Privacy Officer. In addition to answering inquiries, the Chief Privacy Officer is also responsible for ensuring that the Policy requirements and related procedures are being met. All inquiries or complaints regarding privacy should be directed in writing to the Chief Privacy Officer by mail, FAX or e-mail at the addresses below. All inquiries will be responded to within thirty (30) days from the date on which our Chief Privacy Officer has received the inquiry. GoodLife Fitness can refuse access to a file in certain circumstances. For your convenience, you may print our personal information request form by clicking on the link below. Personal Information Request DOWNLOAD Personal Information Request Form Amendments to Our Privacy GoodLife Fitness may review and revise this privacy policy from time to time. Changes to this policy will be posted on our website at www.goodlifefitness.com and available on request in our clubs. MAIL GoodLife Fitness c/o Privacy Officer 710 Proudfoot Lane London ON N6H 5G5 FAX Attention: Chief Privacy Officer 519-432-6701 EMAIL privacyofficer@goodlifefitness.com Land Acknowledgement GoodLife Fitness was founded on the traditional lands of the Anishinaabek (Ah-nish-in-a-bek), Haudenosaunee (Ho-den-no-show-nee), Lūnaapéewak (Len-ahpay- wuk) and Attawandaron (Add-a-won-da-run) Peoples, on lands connected with the London Township and Sombra Treaties of 1796 and the Dish with One Spoon Covenant Wampum. This land, and the land on which all GoodLife Fitness Clubs operate, continues to be home to diverse Indigenous Peoples (First Nations, Inuit and Métis) whom we recognize as contemporary stewards of the land and vital contributors of our society. MEMBERSHIP Join GoodLife Try GoodLife for free Log in to my account Corporate membership Teen Fitness Receipt request CLASSES & TRAINING Book a class Find a class Find training programs On-Demand Workouts CLUBS Find a club Coming soon WOMEN Find classes for women Find training for women Find clubs for women CAREERS Become a Trainer Become an Instructor Join our team GOODLIFE About GoodLife Diversity, Equity & Inclusion The GoodLife Standard Contact us FAQ Blog My Zone Rewards & Contests Follow us Subscribe Unfortunately, this offer is not available at this location. Please visit the club and talk to an associate to learn more about the options available to you. Enter your email address Subscribe Successfully submitted! Sorry, We ran into a problem submitting your information. Please try again. Back Download the GoodLife app Copyright GoodLife Fitness © 2024 Accessibility Privacy Policy