20 Cranberry Recipes to Try This Season - Healthy Seasonal Recipes Mobile Menu Trigger Submit Mobile Search Trigger All Recipes Recipe Index Narrow By Category Fast and Easy Main Course Best Of Diet Home About Contact Cookbook Sign Up In The Kitchen Get my free Weeknight Meals Cookbook All Recipes Recipe Index Narrow By Category Fast and Easy Main Course Best Of Diet Home » round up » 20 Cranberry Recipes to Try This Season 20 Cranberry Recipes to Try This Season by Katie Webster October 29, 2019 (updated 5/23/23) Jump To Recipe Leave a Review Here’s a list of 20 cranberry recipes to try this season. From pizza to cocktails, cranberry sauce to cranberry cake, I’ve got a range of from-scratch fresh cranberry recipes for everyone! Table of contents How to Buy Fresh Cranberries Tips For Cooking With Fresh Cranberries 20 Fresh Cranberry Recipes More Fall Recipes You’ll Love When these tiny red fruits start popping up in the market in October they are a sign that Fall and the holidays are here. They’re just so festive! Plus, of course, they are super healthy also. So I have collected links for some of my favorite healthy cranberry recipes to share with you. We have them in bread, bars and even on flatbread! Thank you to all of the other bloggers who contributed these amazing good-for-you cranberry ideas. How to Buy Fresh Cranberries You can find cranberries fresh, frozen, or dried. For the following recipes, you can use either fresh or frozen. I have a whole host of dried cranberry recipes, but for this roundup I wanted to make a useful resource for you to enjoy fresh cranberries while they’re in season. Produce Department: At the market, especially in natural food stores or Whole Foods, you can find fresh cranberries in bulk in the produce department, often in a big trough of water with a slotted scoop to get them out. Since cranberries float, you can just scoop them right out. I love buying them this way, and I try to find local Vermont cranberries whenever they’re in season. Other times, and most commonly, you’ll find cranberries sold in 12-ounce bags in the produce department. Freezer Section: Sometimes you can find frozen cranberries in bags. The vast majority of the time you can use frozen cranberries in place of fresh ones. Unlike frozen raspberries, they do not weep when thawed, so you have more wiggle room in making the substitutions. What to Look For: Avoid cranberries that are wrinkled or look like they are softening. These are not good and should get composted. If you’re purchasing bulk cranberries, avoid the ones that don’t look fresh. The others should be fine. How to Store Cranberries: Once you get them home, make sure they are dry and store them in the refrigerator. Tips For Cooking With Fresh Cranberries Why Cranberries Burst When Cooked: Cranberries are hollow, so when they are simmered or cooked the air inside heats up and expands, and then the cranberry bursts. If you are making a cranberry sauce (see below for my fave) you’ll want to be on the lookout for that mini berry explosion, and that’s when you know your cranberry sauce is done. Using Cranberries in Baking: For baking recipes, cranberries can be added in raw, either whole or chopped depending on the recipe. Using Frozen Cranberries: If you have frozen berries, you can use them while they are still frozen! When in doubt, check the notes of the recipe you are using. Balance Flavors: Cranberries are very tart and astringent, so when cooking with them, add contrasting flavors, such as sweet or salty to help balance them out. 20 Fresh Cranberry Recipes Cranberry Crumb Bars with Clementines These Cranberry Crumb Bars are an all time favorite baking recipe for a Christmas dessert or afternoon snack and any time around the winter holidays. Cranberry Crumb Bars with Clementines Cranberry Christmas Cake (with Sugared Cranberries) Help yourself to a slice of this sweet and tart Cranberry Cake with Almond Flour. It is made with sour cream instead of butter to give it a tender texture! Cranberry Christmas Cake (with Sugared Cranberries) Cranberry Sauce with Apples & Orange This Cranberry Sauce with Orange is one of my most beloved Thanksgiving recipes here on Healthy Seasonal Recipes. It’s an annual tradition! It’s made with fresh orange segments, orange juice and allspice, and cooked into a sweet and tart whole-berry cranberry sauce. Cranberry Sauce with Apples & Orange Photo Credit: www.foodfaithfitness.com Cranberry Slow Cooker Pork Tenderloin Tacos Slow Cooker Pork Tenderloin Tacos with Cranberries From Food Faith Fitness. These healthy, gluten-free slow cooker pork tenderloin tacos are packed with spicy-sweet fall flavor, and are an easy, weeknight, meal that the whole family will love! Read More Roasted Cranberry and Goat Cheese Flatbreads This roasted cranberry and goat cheese flatbread is a non-traditional pizza. It is an unexpected holiday party appetizer. Read More Cranberry Vinaigrette It’s a healthy, easy cranberry vinaigrette for dressing up fall and winter salads. You’ll want to keep this recipe handy since it is a nice way to switch up your usual salad routine and it has tons of flavor. It is also special enough for Thanksgiving or your holiday table. Read More Photo Credit: www.simplejoy.com Cranberry Orange Mulled Wine This Cranberry Orange Mulled Wine is the perfect drink for your holiday party and a great Thanksgiving Recipe! Continue Reading Maple Cranberry Apple Pie Here’s a Maple Cranberry Apple Pie recipe for Thanksgiving with a deep dish whole grain crust and a sweet crumble topping. It's no joke one of my favorite pies of all time. Maple Cranberry Apple Pie Photo Credit: peasandcrayons.com Cranberry Mango Layered Smoothie This smoothie is vegan-friendly! From Peas and Crayons. This festive Cranberry Mango Layered Smoothie combines two tasty layers of fruit with hidden veggies for a layered smoothie that’s so easy to make! Read More Almond Cranberry Bread This almond cranberry bread is a healthy, refined sugar-free and whole-grain recipe that makes a super holiday gift from the kitchen. It is also a kid-friendly snack for after school, or perfect to bring along if you are going to visit friends or family over the holidays. Almond Cranberry Bread Cranberry Apple Christmas Breakfast Casserole If you are looking for a make-ahead breakfast casserole for Christmas morning, look no further. This Cranberry Apple Christmas Casserole will be a huge hit with the whole family and it can be assembled the day before. It’s made with vanilla Greek yogurt, fresh cranberries, sourdough bread, eggs and it’s topped with a crunchy nut streusel topping. Cranberry Apple Christmas Breakfast Casserole Photo Credit: www.cottercrunch.com Roasted Cranberry Chicken Recipe Roasted chicken made with a delicious balsamic chicken marinade, cranberries, and fresh thyme. This paleo one pan chicken recipe is beyond easy! Read More Photo Credit: boulderlocavore.com How to Make Sugared Cranberries Sugared cranberries are a wonderful holiday treat and add an extra festive touch to baked goods and cocktails (or mocktails). They are easy to make and once you make a batch you’ll be hooked. Fun gift idea too! Continue Reading 10-Minute Fresh Cranberry Relish This is my mom's recipe for raw cranberry relish with ground up orange and raspberry jam. It only takes 1o minutes to make and it can be made up to two days before Thanksgiving. Continue Reading Almond Waffles with Cranberry Orange Honey Syrup These crispy Almond Waffles with Cranberry Orange Honey Syrup are EVERYTHING! They’re crisp as all good waffles should be, and then they are also almondy (like the flavor of an almond macaroon) That alone renders them too good. But then the tart sweet cranberry orange honey syrup makes them an absolute treat. Continue Reading Photo Credit: neighborfoodblog.com Roasted Balsamic Cranberry Brie Crostini Appetizer Sweet, tangy, colorful, and toasted. These Roasted Balsamic Cranberry and Brie Crostini make for s snazzy Holiday appetizer. Read More Photo Credit: www.gimmesomeoven.com Cranberry Crisp This delicious Cranberry Crisp recipe is made with lots and lots of fresh cranberries, it’s easy to prep ahead of time, and it’s the perfect holiday dessert! Feel free to bake it up in a 9-x-9-inch baking dish, or in cute little mini individual ramekins. Read More Photo Credit: confessionsofafitfoodie.com Roasted Shrimp Cocktail Roasted Shrimp Cocktail with Cranberry Horseradish Chutney is the perfect protein packed Thanksgiving appetizer! Read More Photo Credit: www.nutmegnanny.com Cranberry Smoothie Bowl This cranberry smoothie bowl is packed full of cranberries, mixed berries, bananas, almond milk and topped with coconut, chia seeds and nuts. It's healthy, delicious and the perfect holiday rush breakfast. Read More More Fall Recipes You’ll Love Easy Chicken and Rice Soup Massaged Kale Salad with Apple Maple Apple Crisp Healthy Pumpkin Bread with Chocolate Chips Thanks so much for reading! If you are new here, you may want to sign up for my email newsletter to get a free weekly menu plan and the latest recipes right to your inbox. If you make this recipe, please come back and leave a star rating and review. I would love to hear what you thought! Happy Cooking! ~Katie Print clock clock icon cutlery cutlery icon flag flag icon folder folder icon instagram instagram icon pinterest pinterest icon facebook facebook icon print print icon squares squares icon heart heart icon heart solid heart solid icon 20 Cranberry Recipes to Try This Season ★ 5 Stars ☆ ★ 4 Stars ☆ ★ 3 Stars ☆ ★ 2 Stars ☆ ★ 1 Star ☆ No reviews Author: Katie Webster Total Time: 2 hours 25 minutes Yield: 18 servings 1x Print Recipe Pin Recipe Description When cranberries start popping up in the market in October they are a sign that Fall and the holidays are here. They’re just so festive! These Cranberry Crumb Bars with Clementines are a favorite. They have a simple crust that doubles as the crumb topping with almonds. There are fresh clementines mixed into the cranberries and coconut oil and coconut flakes added as well. They were adapted from The Simple Art of EatingWell. Ingredients Copy to clipboard Copy to clipboard Scale 1x2x3x Crust and Topping 1 cup sliced almonds, divided 3/4 cup whole-wheat pastry flour 3/4 cup all-purpose flour 1/2 cup sugar 1/2 teaspoon salt 1/4 cup coconut oil, softened if necessary according to package instructions 1 large egg, lightly beaten 2 tablespoons sunflower or canola oil 1 teaspoon vanilla extract 1/4 teaspoon almond extract 2 tablespoons unsweetened coconut chips Filling 5 cups cranberries, divided 3/4 cup sugar 1/2 cup freshly squeezed clementine juice (save the zest) 1/4 cup cornstarch 1 cup chopped peeled clementine 1 1/2 teaspoons clementine zest 1 teaspoon vanilla extract Cook Mode Prevent your screen from going dark Instructions Preheat oven to 400 degrees F. Generously coat a 9 by 13-inch baking dish with cooking spray. Make the Crust and Topping: Combine ¾ cup almonds, whole-wheat flour, all-purpose flour, ½ cup sugar and salt in a food processor. Pulse until the almonds are ground. Add coconut oil and pulse until completely blended in. Whisk egg, sunflower or canola oil, 1 teaspoon vanilla extract and almond extract in a small dish until combined. Turn on processor and drizzle egg mixture through the feed tube and continue processing and then pulsing, scraping down the sides a few times until the mixture becomes crumbly. {Note: the crumbs will be loose, but if you squeeze them together with your hand it will clump together.] Reserve ½ cup of the crumb mixture and mix in a bowl with the remaining almonds. Press the remaining crumb mixture into the bottom of the prepared dish and set aside. Make the filling: Stir 3 cups cranberries, ¾ cup sugar, clementine juice and cornstarch in medium saucepan. Place over medium heat and bring to a simmer, stirring often. Continue cooking, stirring constantly until very thick, about 5 minutes total. Stir in the remaining 2 cups cranberries, chopped clementine, zest and 1 teaspoon vanilla extract. Spread the cranberry filling over the crust. Sprinkle the reserved topping over the top. Scatter the coconut chips over the topping and transfer to the oven. Bake 15 minutes. Reduce heat to 350 degrees and continue cooking until the filling bubbles and the topping is lightly browned, 25 to 30 minutes longer. Cool completely before cutting. Notes Storing Tip: Store the cranberry crumb bars in an airtight container (or sealable bag) at room temp, in the refrigerator or freezer. They will stay good for up to 2 days at room temp, and up to 4 days in the fridge. Prep Time: 40 minutes Cook Time: 1 hour 45 minutes Category: Dessert Method: Baking Cuisine: American Nutrition Serving Size: 1 Calories: 180 Sugar: 16 g Sodium: 73 mg Fat: 8 g Saturated Fat: 3 g Carbohydrates: 27 g Fiber: 3 g Protein: 3 g Did you make this recipe? Make sure you come back to the recipe post to leave a star rating and review. About the Author Katie Webster Katie Webster studied art and photography at Skidmore College and is a graduate of the New England Culinary Institute. She has been a professional recipe developer since 2001 when she first started working in the test kitchen at EatingWell magazine. Her recipes have been featured in numerous magazines including Shape, Fitness, Parents and several Edible Communities publications among others. Her cookbook, Maple {Quirk Books} was published in 2015. She launched Healthy Seasonal Recipes in 2009. She lives in Vermont with her husband, two teenage daughters and two yellow labs. In her free time, you can find her at the gym, cooking, stacking firewood, making maple syrup, and tending to her overgrown perennial garden. More About Katie » Christmas Fall Other Goodies round up Thanksgiving Uncategorized winter 13 Comments / Leave a Comment » « Previous PostHealthy Chicken Divan – Classic Chicken & Broccoli Casserole Next Post » Healthy Sloppy Joes Subscribe Now Get my FREE Weeknight Dinners EBook Subscribe Now Leave a Reply Cancel reply Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked * Recipe rating ★ 5 Stars ☆ ★ 4 Stars ☆ ★ 3 Stars ☆ ★ 2 Stars ☆ ★ 1 Star ☆ Comment * Name * Email * Website Δ 13 comments on “20 Cranberry Recipes to Try This Season” Ann — November 8, 2019 @ 4:06 am Reply Cranberry is my favorite berry! I really think that it can be converted to any dish and it will be amazingly delicious. Main course, dessert or sauce – delicious anyway! I already tried to cook Roasted Cranberry and Goat Cheese Flatbread, Cranberry Maple Apple Crumb Pie and Cranberry Bread according to your recipes. And moreover, cranberry sauce and cranberry marinade are regular guests at my dining table. This is a cool selection, keep it up. Thank you! Sarah — November 11, 2013 @ 11:46 am Reply Hi Katie – thanks for the recipes! My family are cranberry growers in MA and there aren’t any grown in VT unless it is basically in someone’s back yard. They need sand. katie — November 11, 2013 @ 12:11 pm Reply Sarah, thanks so much for stopping by. I hope you find some new recipes to use your berries in:) I didn’t know they needed sand. That is so interesting. I don’t know how they do it, but we do get local cranberries here, believe it or not. I can find them at a handful of good markets, Farmer Markets and as part of the locavore share of our CSA. The company is Vermont Cranberry Company. http://www.vermontcranberry.com/about-vermont-cranberry-company/ I wonder if they have sandy soils? Min — October 16, 2013 @ 8:03 am Reply What a great round-up, Katie! Cranberry is the superfood of the month at the hospital I’m currently interning at so it is definitely on my mind (and in my belly) lately ;). katie — October 17, 2013 @ 5:23 pm Reply Lucky you. I just saw the cover of EatingWell and what do you think is on the cover? I guess everyone is thinking about them:) Ari — October 15, 2013 @ 11:45 pm Reply I’ve been searching for them too–no where to be seen 🙁 I want to make my sauce + about a zillion other things, and I am super impatient. Great round up, Katie! katie — October 16, 2013 @ 5:53 am Reply Thanks Ari. I saw a picture on instagram of someone buying them in mass quantities, so I know they are out there:) Anne — October 15, 2013 @ 11:09 am Reply Great ideas! I always forget about cranberries until Thanksgiving. I buy a ton of them and freeze for later. katie — October 15, 2013 @ 1:33 pm Reply Anne, I just checked and I think I still have some in my freezer from last year! Thanks for coming by! Kalyn — October 15, 2013 @ 11:01 am Reply Loving this round-up, and thanks for including me! katie — October 15, 2013 @ 1:33 pm Reply Kalyn it is an honor to include your recipes! Thanks so much for your spinach salad and cranberry salsa! David — October 15, 2013 @ 7:54 am Reply Thanks so much for including me (#14)! Definitely bookmarking this one to try out some of these delicious recipes. 🙂 katie — October 15, 2013 @ 9:43 am Reply David. I love your Orzo salad. Anything that is a little sweet and savory is good in my book. Hi, I’m Katie and this is my Vermont kitchen. I’m a classically trained chef, professional recipe developer and cookbook author. My mission is to help make cooking with whole food ingredients easy, fun and delicious! Here you’ll find healthy & easy weeknight dinners for the whole family and simple and yummy ways to cook with fresh produce. More about me » More About Me Fresh Recipes For You Maple Glazed Salmon Crockpot Green Chile Chicken One Pan Chicken and Rice with Broccoli Ground Turkey Tacos Lamb Kofta Kebabs (Grilled) Chicken and Cabbage Stir-Fry Subscribe Now Get my FREE Weeknight Dinner E-Book Sign Up Hungry? Search here! Submit Trending Now Don't miss these popular recipes! Simple Skillet Green Beans Roasted Baby Carrots Pan Seared Lamb Loin Chops Apple Cider Vinegar Salad Dressing Easy Veggie Quiche Pan Seared Scallops Subscribe Now Get my FREE Weeknight Meals EBook Subscribe Now ^ Top Home About Cookbook Recipes Contact Privacy Terms ©2024 Healthy Seasonal Recipes. Design by Purr. FREE Weeknight Dinners E-Book Yours free when you subscribe to our weekly newsletter We respect your privacy. 3.4K shares 3.1K