Mediterranean Diet 101: Meal Plan, Foods List, and Tips Health Conditions Featured Breast Cancer IBD Migraine Multiple Sclerosis (MS) Rheumatoid Arthritis Type 2 Diabetes Sponsored Topics Articles Acid Reflux ADHD Allergies Alzheimer's & Dementia Bipolar Disorder Cancer Crohn's Disease Chronic Pain Cold & Flu COPD Depression Fibromyalgia Heart Disease High Cholesterol HIV Hypertension IPF Osteoarthritis Psoriasis Skin Disorders and Care STDs Discover Wellness Topics Nutrition Fitness Skin Care Sexual Health Women's Health Mental Well-Being Sleep Product Reviews Vitamins & Supplements Sleep Mental Health Nutrition At-Home Testing CBD Men’s Health Original Series Fresh Food Fast Diagnosis Diaries You’re Not Alone Present Tense Video Series Youth in Focus Healthy Harvest Through An Artist's Eye Future of Health Plan Health Challenges Mindful Eating Sugar Savvy Move Your Body Gut Health Mood Foods Align Your Spine Find Care Primary Care Mental Health OB-GYN Dermatologists Neurologists Cardiologists Orthopedists Lifestyle Quizzes Weight Management Am I Depressed? A Quiz for Teens Are You a Workaholic? How Well Do You Sleep? Tools & Resources Health News Find a Diet Find Healthy Snacks Drugs A-Z Health A-Z Connect Find Your Bezzy Community Breast Cancer Inflammatory Bowel Disease Psoriatic Arthritis Migraine Multiple Sclerosis Psoriasis Follow us on social media Healthline Health Conditions Discover Plan Connect Subscribe Nutrition Special Diets Healthy Eating Food Freedom Conditions Feel Good Food Products Vitamins & Supplements Sustainability Weight Management NutritionEvidence Based Mediterranean Diet 101: A Meal Plan and Beginner’s Guide Medically reviewed by Marie Lorraine Johnson MS, RD, CPT — By Kris Gunnars, BSc and Rachael Ajmera, MS, RD — Updated on November 10, 2023 What Is It? How to Follow It Foods to Eat Foods to Limit Menu and Recipes Snacks Eating Out Shopping List Benefits FAQ Bottom Line Rich in fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and heart-healthy fats, the Mediterranean diet is both delicious and nutritious. It may help manage your weight, protect your heart, and prevent diabetes. There are no concrete rules for following the Mediterranean diet, but general guidelines can help you incorporate its principles into your daily routine. This article takes a closer look at the Mediterranean diet, how to follow it, and how it can affect your health. We also offer some meal tips and direct you to some handy recipes. What is the Mediterranean diet? The Mediterranean diet is based on the traditional foods of countries bordering the Mediterranean Sea, including France, Spain, Greece, and Italy. Some research has suggested that people living in these regions tend to be healthier and have a lower risk of many chronic conditions, compared with people who follow a standard American diet. It typically encourages people to: consume more: fruits vegetables whole grains legumes nuts and seeds heart-healthy fats consume less: processed foods added sugars refined grains limit alcohol consumption Research has indicated that the Mediterranean diet can: promote weight loss help prevent heart attacks, stroke, and type 2 diabetes reduce the risk of premature death For this reason, the Mediterranean diet is a suitable option for those looking to improve their health and protect against chronic disease. »MORE:Living with diabetes? Explore our top resources. How to follow it There is no set plan for following a Mediterranean diet, but the following table offers some guidelines: Focus on vegetables, fruits, nuts, seeds, legumes, potatoes, whole grains, herbs, spices, fish, seafood, and extra virgin olive oil Low to moderate consumption poultry, eggs, cheese, yogurt, red wine Limit or avoid red meat, sugar-sweetened beverages, added sugars, processed meat, refined grains, other highly processed foods, beers, and liqors Features of a Mediterranean lifestyle that may also benefit a person’s health include: sharing meals with others, without distraction from screens and other devices consuming red wine in small servings, with a meal, and not every day flavoring foods with herbs and spices rather than salt Share on Pinterest Foods to eat It is difficult to define which foods belong to the Mediterranean diet, partly because there’s variation between countries. Overall, however, the diet: is high in healthy plant foods is low in animal products and meat includes fish and seafood at least twice a week You can include a mix of fresh, frozen, dried, and canned fruits and vegetables, but check package labels for added sugar and sodium. You can base your diet on these foods: Vegetables: tomatoes, broccoli, kale, spinach, onions, cauliflower, carrots, Brussels sprouts, cucumbers, potatoes, sweet potatoes, turnips Fruits: apples, bananas, oranges, pears, strawberries, grapes, dates, figs, melons, peaches Nuts, seeds, and nut butters: almonds, walnuts, macadamia nuts, hazelnuts, cashews, sunflower seeds, pumpkin seeds, almond butter, peanut butter Legumes: beans, peas, lentils, pulses, peanuts, chickpeas Whole grains: oats, brown rice, rye, barley, corn, buckwheat, whole wheat bread and pasta Fish and seafood: salmon, sardines, trout, tuna, mackerel, shrimp, oysters, clams, crab, mussels Poultry: chicken, duck, turkey Eggs: chicken, quail, and duck eggs Dairy: cheese, yogurt, milk Herbs and spices: garlic, basil, mint, rosemary, sage, nutmeg, cinnamon, pepper Healthy fats: extra virgin olive oil, olives, avocados, and avocado oil Get some tips for healthy grocery shopping Foods to limit Foods to limit on a Mediterranean diet include: Added sugar: added sugar is found in many foods but especially high in soda, candies, ice cream, table sugar, syrup, and baked goods Refined grains: white bread, pasta, tortillas, chips, crackers Trans fats: found in margarine, fried foods, and other processed foods Processed meat: processed sausages, hot dogs, deli meats, beef jerky Highly processed foods: fast food, convenience meals, microwave popcorn, granola bars Beverages Drinks to include are: water coffee and tea are also suitable, but with limited sugar or cream small to moderate amounts of red wine, and only alongside a meal fresh fruit juices without added sugar Drinks to limit: beer and liqor sugar-sweetened beverages, such as sodas, which are high in added sugar fruit juices with added sugar Sample menu and recipes Below is a sample menu for 1 week of meals on the Mediterranean diet. Feel free to adjust the portions and food choices based on your own needs and preferences, and add snacks as desired. For more ideas, check out this list of 21 healthy Mediterranean recipes. Monday Breakfast: Greek yogurt with strawberries and chia seeds Lunch: a whole grain sandwich with hummus and vegetables Dinner: a tuna salad with greens and olive oil, as well as a fruit salad Tuesday Breakfast: oatmeal with blueberries Lunch: caprese zucchini noodles with mozzarella, cherry tomatoes, olive oil, and balsamic vinegar Dinner: a salad with tomatoes, olives, cucumbers, farro, baked trout, and feta cheese Wednesday Breakfast: an omelet with mushrooms, tomatoes, and onions Lunch: a whole grain sandwich with cheese and fresh vegetables Dinner: Mediterranean lasagna Thursday Breakfast: yogurt with sliced fruit and nuts Lunch: a quinoa salad with chickpeas Dinner: broiled salmon with brown rice and vegetables Friday Breakfast: eggs and sautéed vegetables with whole wheat toast Lunch: stuffed zucchini boats with pesto, turkey sausage, tomatoes, bell peppers, and cheese Dinner: grilled lamb with salad and baked potato Saturday Breakfast: oatmeal with nuts and raisins or apple slices Lunch: lentil salad with feta, tomatoes, cucumbers, and olives Dinner: Mediterranean pizza made with whole wheat pita bread and topped with cheese, vegetables, and olives Sunday Breakfast: an omelet with veggies and olives Lunch: falafel bowl with feta, onions, tomatoes, hummus, and rice Dinner: grilled chicken with vegetables, sweet potato fries, and fresh fruit There’s usually no need to count calories or track macronutrients (protein, fat, and carbs) on the Mediterranean diet, unless you are managing your glucose levels. But, it is essential to consume all food in moderation. Healthy snacks If you start feeling hungry between meals, there are plenty of healthy snack options, such as: a handful of nuts a piece of fruit baby carrots with hummus mixed berries grapes Greek yogurt hard-boiled egg with salt and pepper apple slices with almond butter sliced bell peppers with guacamole cottage cheese with fresh fruit chia pudding Eating out Many restaurants serve foods that fit in with the Mediterranean diet. Here are some tips to help adapt dishes when you’re eating out: Choose fish or seafood as your main dish. Ask for grilled foods rather than fried, where possible. Ask the server if your food can be cooked in extra virgin olive oil. Choose whole grain bread, with olive oil instead of butter. Add vegetables to your order. These tips for eating healthy at restaurants may also be helpful. Shopping list When shopping, opt for nutrient-dense foods, such as fruits, vegetables, nuts, seeds, legumes, and whole grains. Here are some basic Mediterranean diet items to add to your shopping list: Vegetables: carrots, onions, broccoli, spinach, kale, garlic, zucchini, mushrooms Frozen veggies: peas, carrots, broccoli, mixed vegetables Tubers: potatoes, sweet potatoes, yams Fruits: apples, bananas, oranges, grapes, melons, peaches, pears, strawberries, blueberries Grains: whole grain bread, whole grain pasta, quinoa, brown rice, oats Legumes: lentils, chickpeas, black beans, kidney beans Nuts: almonds, walnuts, cashews, pistachios, macadamia nuts Seeds: sunflower seeds, pumpkin seeds, chia seeds, hemp seeds Condiments: sea salt, pepper, turmeric, cinnamon, cayenne pepper, oregano Seafood: salmon, sardines, mackerel, trout, shrimp, mussels Dairy products: Greek yogurt, yogurt, milk Poultry: chicken, duck, turkey Eggs: chicken, quail, and duck eggs Healthy fats: extra virgin olive oil, olives, avocados, avocado oil Potential benefits of a Mediterranean diet The Mediterranean diet has been linked to a long list of health benefits. Helps with weight loss Research has not confirmed that following a Mediterranean diet will cause a person to lose weigh. However, studies have suggested it may be a good long-term option for people seeking to manage their weight. Data for people who followed the diet for 5 years indicated they were less likely to gain excess weight than those on other diets. Benefits include: plenty of variety means the diet is not restrictive and therefore easy to maintain high fiber levels means a person is more likely to feel satisfied for longer and less likely to snack the healthy fats are less likely to cause heart problems linked to obesity Promotes heart health The American Heart Association recommends the Mediterranean diet as an evidence-driven options for preventing cardiovascular disease and stroke. In 2021, for instance, some researchers compared the effects of the Mediterranean diet with those of a low fat diet. They concluded that the Mediterranean diet was more effective at slowing the progression of plaque buildup in the arteries. Plaque buildup is a major risk factor for heart disease. The authors of another study said the Mediterranean diet could support heart health by lowering blood pressure. Supports healthy blood sugar levels The Mediterranean diet may help stabilize blood sugar levels and protect against type 2 diabetes. Studies have suggested that it may: reduce fasting blood sugar levels improve levels of hemoglobin A1C, a marker used to measure long-term glucose levels decrease insulin resistance, which stops the body from using insulin to regulate blood sugar levels effectively Protects brain function The Mediterranean diet may benefit brain health and prevent cognitive decline as you get older. One study found a possible link between following a Mediterranean diet, improved memory, and reductions in several risk factors for Alzheimer’s disease. A large review also linked the Mediterranean diet to improvements in cognitive function, memory, attention, and processing speed in healthy older adults. Frequently asked questions What exactly do you eat on a Mediterranean diet? The Mediterranean diet focuses largely on fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and healthy fats. What are the top 10 foods on a Mediterranean diet? Examples of foods to consume on a Mediterranean diet include: chard broccoli grapes parsely olives and olive oil lentils buckwheat sunflower seeds avocado fish You can drink a low to moderate amount of red wine, in small servings and with a meal. What foods can you not eat in a Mediterranean diet? You should limit or avoid your intake of: red meat processed foods, including meats refined carbohydrates, such as added sugars sweetened drinks liquor and beer Are eggs eaten in a Mediterranean diet? You can eat eggs in moderation, for example, 2–4 servings weekly. Is the Mediterranean diet anti-inflammatory? In a 2018 study, researchers found that not following the Mediterranean diet, or not following it consistently, was associated with higher markers of inflammation in the blood. That’s because many of the foods included in this diet are known to be anti-inflammatory. That said, other research suggests that more study is needed to determine its impact on various types of inflammation and diseases. The bottom line There is no single Mediterranean diet, but general guidelines suggest focusing on healthy plant foods and a moderate intake of dairy products and fish or seafood. The diet does not include highly processed foods, such as candies and processed meats. The Mediterranean diet may have numerous health benefits. For instance, it may help prevent weight gain, stabilize blood sugar levels, promote heart health, and enhance brain function. One reason the Mediterranean diet can benefit your health is that it provides a balance of nutrients and is adaptable and easy to stick to. Just one thing Try this today: Incorporating more fruits and vegetables into your meals and snacks throughout the day is a great way to get started on the Mediterranean diet. Try adding a side salad or steamed veggie dish to your main meals and enjoy a fresh piece of fruit for dessert! Was this helpful? Last medically reviewed on November 9, 2023 How we reviewed this article: Sources History Healthline has strict sourcing guidelines and relies on peer-reviewed studies, academic research institutions, and medical associations. We avoid using tertiary references. You can learn more about how we ensure our content is accurate and current by reading our editorial policy. Ballarini T., et al. (2021). Mediterranean Diet, Alzheimer Disease Biomarkers, and Brain Atrophy in Old Age. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC8253566/ Davis C, et al. (2015). Definition of the Mediterranean Diet: A literature review. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4663587/ de la Torre Moral A, et al. (2021). Family Meals, Conviviality, and the Mediterranean Diet among Families with Adolescents. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7967627/ Jimenez-Torres J, et al. (2021). Mediterranean Diet Reduces Atherosclerosis Progression in Coronary Heart Disease: An Analysis of the CORDIOPREV Randomized Controlled Trial. https://www.ahajournals.org/doi/10.1161/STROKEAHA.120.033214?url_ver=Z39.88-2003&rfr_id=ori:rid:crossref.org&rfr_dat=cr_pub%20%200pubmed Lăcătușu C-M, et al. (2019). The Mediterranean Diet: From an Environment-Driven Food Culture to an Emerging Medical Prescription. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC6466433/ Lotfi K, et al. (2022). Adherence to the Mediterranean Diet, Five-Year Weight Change, and Risk of Overweight and Obesity: A Systematic Review and Dose–Response Meta-Analysis of Prospective Cohort Studies. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC8803490/ Loughrey DG, et al. (2017). The Impact of the Mediterranean Diet on the Cognitive Functioning of Healthy Older Adults: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC5502874/ Martín-Peláez S, et al. (2020). Mediterranean Diet Effects on Type 2 Diabetes Prevention, Disease Progression, and Related Mechanisms. A Review. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7468821/ Mirabelli M, et al. (2020). Mediterranean Diet Nutrients to Turn the Tide against Insulin Resistance and Related Diseases. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7230471/ Nissensohn M., et al. (2016). The Effect of the Mediterranean Diet on Hypertension: A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis. https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/26483006/ Sleiman D, et al. (2015). Effect of Mediterranean Diet in Diabetes Control and Cardiovascular Risk Modification: A Systematic Review. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC4411995/ Sureda A, et al. (2018). Adherence to the Mediterranean diet and inflammatory markers. https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/29320413/ Tosti V, et al. (2018). Health Benefits of the Mediterranean Diet: Metabolic and Molecular Mechanisms. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7190876/ Tsigalou C, et al. (2020). Mediterranean diet as a tool to combat inflammation and chronic diseases. An overview. https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7400632/ What is the Mediterranean diet? (2020). https://www.heart.org/en/healthy-living/healthy-eating/eat-smart/nutrition-basics/mediterranean-diet Our experts continually monitor the health and wellness space, and we update our articles when new information becomes available. Current Version Nov 10, 2023 Written By Kris Gunnars, Rachael Ajmera, MS, RD Edited By Alina Sharon Copy Edited By Copy Editors Nov 9, 2023 Medically Reviewed By Marie Lorraine Johnson MS, RD, CPT VIEW ALL HISTORY Share this article Medically reviewed by Marie Lorraine Johnson MS, RD, CPT — By Kris Gunnars, BSc and Rachael Ajmera, MS, RD — Updated on November 10, 2023 Read this next 5 Studies on the Mediterranean Diet — Does it Work? By Kris Gunnars, BSc This review of five human studies on the Mediterranean diet examines its effects on weight loss, various diseases, and the risk of death. READ MORE Not All Mediterranean Diets Are Created Equal Researchers put volunteers with both higher and lower incomes on a Mediterranean diet, but only the participants with higher incomes showed health… READ MORE The Nordic Diet: An Evidence-Based Review By Joe Leech, MS This is a detailed review of the Nordic diet. Foods to eat, foods to avoid, health benefits and a review of the research behind the diet. READ MORE Top 9 Healthiest Foods to Eat to Lose Weight and Feel Great By Kris Gunnars, BSc If you want to lose weight, feel great and improve your health in many ways, these are the 9 healthiest foods you should eat every day. READ MORE 14 Favorite Foods to Enjoy in Moderation — Plus Nutritious Swaps By Shahzadi Devje, RD, CDE, MSc Here are 14 better-for-you swaps for some popular favorites. READ MORE 29 Healthy Snacks That Can Help You Lose Weight By Ariane Lang, BSc, MBA and Franziska Spritzler Having a healthy snack on hand can help you add nutrients to your diet and feel less hungry when you sit down to a meal. Here are 29 healthy snacks… READ MORE 7 Science-Based Health Benefits of Drinking Enough Water By Joe Leech, MS Being dehydrated can negatively affect your body and brain. Here are 7 evidence-based health benefits of drinking water. READ MORE Can Coffee Increase Your Metabolism and Help You Burn Fat? By Kris Gunnars, BSc Coffee contains caffeine, a stimulant substance that is proven to increase the release of fats from the fat tissues and boost the resting metabolic… READ MORE What Is the Ice Hack Diet and Can It Help You Lose Weight? Medically reviewed by Amy Richter, RD The ice hack diet focuses on eating cold foods to speed up your metabolism. But research suggests this may not be very effective. READ MORE Is Oatmeal a Keto-Friendly Food? Medically reviewed by Katherine Marengo LDN, R.D. Here's all about oatmeal for a keto diet and how to make it work or find a suitable alternative. READ MORE About Us Contact Us Privacy Policy Privacy Settings Advertising Policy Health Topics Medical Affairs Content Integrity Newsletters © 2024 Healthline Media LLC. All rights reserved. Our website services, content, and products are for informational purposes only. Healthline Media does not provide medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. See additional information. See additional information. © 2024 Healthline Media LLC. All rights reserved. Our website services, content, and products are for informational purposes only. Healthline Media does not provide medical advice, diagnosis, or treatment. See additional information. See additional information. AboutCareersAdvertise with us OUR BRANDS HealthlineMedical News TodayGreatistPsych CentralBezzy