41 Best Healthy Pumpkin Recipes - How to Cook Pumpkin Healthy Search Subscribe My Bookmarks Member Exclusives Country Life Holiday & Entertaining Food & Drinks Kids & Pets Design Ideas Real Estate Remodeling & Renovation Gardening Home Maintenance Crafts & DIY Projects Country Living Shop Shopping Guides Country Living Fair Newsletter Follow Promotions Win Other Editions Privacy NoticeTerms Of Use Skip to Content Food & Drinks Gardening Home Shopping Life Subscribe sign in DIY Easter Basket Ideas Easter Basket Stuffers Best Garden Design Plans Easter Egg Hunt Ideas Easter Brunch Recipes Food & Drinks Celebrate Fall 40+ Best Healthy Pumpkin Recipes to Enjoy the Best Fall Flavor 40+ Best Healthy Pumpkin Recipes to Enjoy the Best Fall Flavor Yes, healthy pumpkin spice ice cream exists. 🎃🍦 By Jennifer Aldrich and Chloe Gorman Updated: Aug 24, 2021 Save Article Use Arrow Keys to Navigate View Gallery 41 Slides Getty Images Not only is it a classic symbol of fall food, but pumpkin has many health benefits! So we've rounded up our favorite healthy pumpkin recipes. There are many different ways to use this autumnal ingredient, from pumpkin scones to pumpkin desserts. The best part? You don't have to feel guilty about indulging in any of these healthy pumpkin recipes. Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 1 Pumpkin, Beef, and Black Bean Chili Ryan Liebe The addition of pumpkin makes this hearty beef and bean chili perfect for fall. Get the recipe. Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 2 Ginger-Pumpkin Soup Getty Images This creamy, warm soup transforms one of the fall season's staples—the pumpkin—into a rich first course. Get the recipe. Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 3 Pumpkin Cannelloni with Sage Brown-Butter Sauce Kana Okada No need to make fresh pasta for these silky ricotta-pumpkin cannelloni—oven-ready lasagna sheets work just fine. Get the recipe. Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 4 Harvest Pumpkin Soup Anna Williams To lighten up this soup, substitute low-sodium chicken broth and use only 3 tablespoons of heavy cream, and you'll save 68 calories, 8 grams of fat, and 453 milligrams of sodium per serving. Get the recipe. Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 5 Risotto with Pumpkin John Kernick This recipe gets flavor from Parmesan cheese, rosemary, and porcini mushrooms. Get the recipe. Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 6 Pumpkin-Ricotta Stuffed Shells Kana Okada By incorporating pumpkin, this recipe requires less cheese than is typically used to stuff shells, but keeps all the delicious flavor. Get the recipe. Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 7 Pumpkin Bread Marcus Nilsson Try this moist bread with butter or a mild cheese—or dip it in pumpkin soup for an extra hearty experience. Get the recipe. Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 8 Vegetable Pumpkin Stir Fry Earth of Maria Whether you're vegan or just want a meatless option for dinner, this recipe is for you. It's full of vegetables and, of course, pumpkin. Get the recipe at Earth of Maria. Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 9 Pumpkin Spice Ice Cream Elizabeth Rider Yes you read that right. There is a healthy pumpkin ice cream out there, and it's fabulous. Get the recipe at Elizabeth Rider. Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 10 Fall Pumpkin Chili Chew Out Loud Warm up without the guilt by cooking this pumpkin chili recipe. It's full of hearty vegetables and spices that are perfect for a fall dinner. Get the recipe at Chew Out Loud. Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 11 Maple Pumpkin Bread Choosing Chia What's better than one fall ingredient? Two! This pumpkin bread uses your favorite autumnal gourd, plus maple syrup. Get the recipe at Choosing Chia. Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 12 Pumpkin Blondies A Simple Palate Yes, you can still have a healthy pumpkin dessert. These blondies use clean ingredients, like unrefined sugar and oat flour. Get the recipe at A Simple Palate. Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 13 Spicy Crockpot Pumpkin Soup Eat the Gains Spice up your traditional pumpkin soup (literally!) with this recipe. The best part? It uses a slow cooker, meaning you can set it and forget it. Get the recipe at Eat the Gains. Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 14 Pumpkin Chickpea Curry Ambitious Kitchen A better-than-takeout, plant-based fall meal that's loaded with fiber and protein? Right this way. Enjoy fresh, cubed pumpkins with coconut brown rice and chickpeas, all drizzled in a delicious curry sauce. Get the recipe at Ambitious Kitchen. Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 15 Healthy Pumpkin Pancakes What Molly Made Kick off the most important meal of the day with a fluffy stack of easy, gluten-free pumpkin pancakes. Get the recipe at What Molly Made. Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 16 Pumpkin Alfredo Pasta Simply Quinoa The next time a savory pasta craving hits, go the healthy route and ditch the heavy creams and cheeses. You'll get the same great taste and texture with a healthy homemade sauce, sourced from pumpkin puree and blended raw cashews. Get the recipe at Simply Quinoa. Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 17 Skinny Pumpkin Protein Cookies Kim's Cravings At less than 50 calories a pop, these chocolatey treats make indulging your pumpkin sweet tooth completely shameless. Get the recipe at Kim's Cravings. Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 18 Pumpkin Veggie Burger Avocado Pesto Prepare for love at first bite. Quinoa flour and gluten-free breadcrumbs imitate the burger consistency, minus the meat. You can cut down on carbs even more by serving with lettuce wraps instead of buns. Get the recipe at Avocado Pesto. Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 19 Pumpkin Pie Chia Pudding Eat the Gains This sweet treat packs the same delicious flavor as pumpkin pie filling—but in healthy snack form. Get the recipe at Eat the Gains. Advertisement - Continue Reading Below 20 Pumpkin Baked Oatmeal Joy Food Sunshine Refresh your breakfast regimen with a baked pumpkin twist on standard oatmeal. Topped with a maple cinnamon cream cheese glaze, this recipe has no refined sugar and packs on plenty of protein and fiber. Get the recipe at Joy Food Sunshine. Advertisement - Continue Reading Below Celebrate Fall Play These Thanksgiving Songs During Your Feast 10 Best Leftover Turkey Sandwich Recipes 65 Fall Nail Designs to Rock This Autumn Presented by Shipt 33 Fully Thought Out Thanksgiving Menu Ideas Advertisement - Continue Reading Below Stunning DIY Thanksgiving Centerpiece Ideas Fall Quotes to Remind You of Autumn's Beauty Happy Thanksgiving Quotes to Share Far and Wide Best Halloween Costumes on Amazon 2022 85 Slow Cooker Recipes That'll Satisfy the Family 18 Over-the-Top Thanksgiving Stuffing Recipes The Best of Walmart's Fall Fashion 2023 Clever Halloween IG Captions Advertisement - Continue Reading Below NewsletterAbout UsMedia KitPress RoomContact UsCommunity GuidelinesAdvertise OnlineCustomer ServiceSubscribeOther Hearst SubscriptionsGive a GiftEvents & PromotionsGiveaways A Part of Hearst Digital Media We may earn commission from links on this page, but we only recommend products we back. ©2024 Hearst Magazine Media, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Privacy NoticeCA Notice at CollectionYour CA Privacy Rights/Shine the LightDAA Industry Opt OutTerms of UseSite Map Cookies Choices